>> Steve Kinney: So yeah, we could.
Theoretically we have the checkbox open.
So I'm gonna do, no,
I'm gonna let you do this one.
I'm gonna do a slightly more complicated
one and then I will tell you what you're
gonna do afterwards so you can think about
it in advance, which is we want to do
something similar to what we saw earlier,
where if the checkbox is checked,
we want to change the entire parent and
maybe, yeah, like,
like maybe we refactor out peer, but
let's do something that has been like I
remember the last time we did this course
I joked like I did a bunch of squirrely
stuff because you couldn't fully do this,
especially in tailwind at that point.
And the support for
has wasn't totally there yet,
but now you can do it, which is one
of the patterns that I wanna do.
And again,
I don't wanna write any JavaScript, so
I'm not writing JavaScript today.
Write JavaScript all day, every day.
I don't want to write JavaScript today
is I want to do the pattern where
if a input field is required, I want the
label to have a little red dot after it.
Right?
Previously you couldn't do this
just in CSS because you could.
Like if the label came before the input,
peer wasn't going to help you because
peer can only help the things afterwards.
So previously you either
A had to use JavaScript or
B the dark pattern that I did was I
put the label after the input and
then Flex reversed works.
I used it forever but
now I never felt good about it.
How about that?
Now I don't have to do that anymore.
I have that input that we were
playing around with before.
Gonna just get rid of the sidebar,
put you over on the side.
Nope, you can take up the full height and
then we'll grab you.
Nope, there we go.
We'll go into Storybook and
let's find the input.
This required input, right?
Now there's no visual indicator
that this input is required and
we'd love to handle it.
What I want to do is a little red dot or
something right here if
it is in fact required.
But the thing is, again,
we can't use peer because you can only
go from the input afterwards, right?
But I can use the combination of group and
has together now in order to actually
implement this, the squirreliest part is
going to be putting the actual red dot,
not the actually figuring
out if it should be there.
So let's kinda do this iteratively.
And what we're gonna do is we're
going to say that the parent,
in this case, the div,
is gonna be one of those group components.
So now children can ask
about their parent, right?
And that parent will
be group in this case.
Great.
And so we have that.
And so for label, what I want to do is you
can if you need to do those before and
after pseudo elements, you know that
colon, colon before, colon, colon,
after, you can do that in tailwind.
I will warn you that the class names
themselves can be a little verbose,
but arguably still less characters
overall than what you would
do line wise in terms of css.
So you can do something after which
will be the after pseudo element.
Say after and we say the content.
We'll start with something simple.
And you'll see originally this is
somewhat problematic because that's just
gonna put that after the label
no matter what, right?
And so if I go ahead and
I let's make you go to the bottom.
Whether or not it's required,
we still see that.
So let's deal with that in a second.
I'm gonna give the after a margin left of,
I don't know, 2, okay?
And I'll give the after
a text read 600.
Okay, but like I said before,
not great that it says required
even was not required.
But luckily we can fix that super easily.
Where we can say just
where is that content?
We could say, group has,
Input that is required.
So now if it's not required,
we don't see that if it is required,
we do just pure CSS.
No JavaScript has to change.
All that has to happen is if the required
attribute is on the input, we get it.
And so a lot of times you won't
see the full word required.
You'll see something like at that point
I might move it a little bit closer.
But now by default, now whatever use
input if it happens required you see it.
No JavaScript needed.
And then I am insane.
So a lot of times what I'll do is
I'll do after block after width 2,
after height 2 and then I'll get rid.
I'll make it just empty content.
I think I did it after, no, I did after
block, after height 2, after width 2.
Got to make the entire thing flex.
It's just going beneath it.
So you can make the label
instead of block.
We're gonna make it flex.
What am I missing?
After block after height 2, width 2.
Instead of text red.
No, we need that.
That IntelliSense not helping me when
I've Got word wrap like that we can do.
We'll talk about flexbox in a second but
now I can get this nice little pretty dot.
Never write a line in JavaScript.
There are a lot of after selectors there.
I don't insist that you do that.
You could just use the asterisk or
required or some word like that as well.
But now you can theoretically again
this will just now work whenever.
Let's refresh that, make sure that sticks.
We saw that with the dot before.
Yeah, I know what I did.
I might have to do group has
on a bunch of these as well.
So we can just go with
the star too either way.
Cuz you can watch me type that over and
over and over again, but
the previous example we
had before two will work.
We could also make.
I'll show you how to make a variant
in a second too where you can
like if you find yourself doing that
too many times, we can go ahead and
just make the simpler version group
as required and then return it.
True.
Do it inline.
A lot of times you'll see this
instead because it is like way easier.
But yeah, required, not required.
All there.
And you can style it as much or
as little as you want.
We can even take off that ml-2 if
we're just doing the asterisks.
But yeah, now you can do a bunch of
powerful things where you can figure
out if any element I can sell before,
I can sell after by
kind of doing the bidirectional
hey parent, do you have this?
Hey, like ask your parent
if you have it right and
then like earlier peers can have it,
so on and so forth.
There's a bunch of places
where you can do this as well.
Like it's one of those things where it's
like there are some very like high level
like yeah, the required field having again
like if someone checks the like a given
pricing thing that we saw before or
a checkbox and
they agree to the terms of service,
you want to do something.
It's one of those things where it's like
there's some very kind of standard small
little niceties.
But then there is probably that
thing where you found yourself doing
a bunch of JavaScript
shenanigans that you like.
It's like I joke some of those features
where it's like a week from now
you'll be taking a walk and be like
I could just do that and take that 10
lines of 20 lines of code and turn it
into just a few CSS selectors, right?
And all code that you have
is code that can break.
So the less of it is,
the less of a liability.